So, what should we talk about now? Because you were involved with the Burial Society.
Yes, my parents traditionally were, well, found members of it.
Yeah.
Going back many years ago and I think I just followed in their footsteps.
Okay. The burials in Swansea were not just Swansea?
No, they were from Nethley, Port Talbot, Neath, the valleys, West Brailums.
Swansea Cemetery was the only cemetery in this area.
Yeah. So the members of your synagogue, as a member, they would have certain rights regarding burial?
Yes. Included in the, and there used to be a collector who would collect, go around the houses collecting,
you know, whether it was six months a week or whatever.
That would include, I'd say, burial rights, the plot, in actual fact, the plot.
Okay. And then was there some kind of financial arrangement with Nethley, any other places as well then, or was it done on an individual basis?
I can't really say I wasn't that involved in that side of the municipal, the city.
Do you still get people who were ex-Nethley or Port Talbot wanting to come and be buried in Swansea now?
Unfortunately, no.
About two weeks ago, didn't you?
Yes, but that wasn't Nethley.
Well, he was not far from Nethley.
Yeah, Tumble, Upper Tumble.
These are people that are not known to you that suddenly their family says...
Yes, there's no one left in Nethley now.
Yeah.
The last one died. When did Charlie die?
Oh, it's got to be ten years, if not...
Yes.
Okay, yeah.
All my family had left Nethley.
Right.
But you do get people that are Jewish living in the valleys. They don't really want to be associated with the synagogues.
Yeah.
But when they die, they want to have a Jewish funeral.
We oblige as long as they can prove, or the family can prove, that they are in fact Jewish.
Because it took a while for us to realize that the Jewish funeral is a lot cheaper than the Christian, even non-denominational.
Right.
Yeah.
I think they make inquiries probably through Cardiff, and then they find out this one in Swansea. Ours is a lot cheaper.
That must be quite a delicate matter to deal with.
Yes, very.
Because you have responsibilities, but at the same time, you have to look at it. You need income and everything else as well, don't you?
Yes. Well, you know, we have to keep the cemeteries in good order.
I must admit, if you can say, it's a pleasure to look at. Maybe it would be the wrong wording, but the new cemetery really is very, very beautiful.
So there are two cemeteries in?
Two cemeteries.
Both within your species of the same synagogue?
Yes. One going back to 1700-odd, and the other one, I think, that was... And that opened up by the time we were married.
Yes. No. It lasted a long time after we got married.
So it would have been in the 60s?
No, I would say later than that.
For 70s?
Yes, in fact, 70s, because your father is buried in the old cemetery.
That's true.
I would even say it might have been the early 80s. My mother's buried up there, but she's not in the front row by any means. She's about three or four rows back, isn't she?
And she died in 1981. So I'd say in the 70s it opened.